 4.	Write short answers to:
o	What is the difference between arrays and linked lists?
o	What is the time complexity of insertion in a linked list
Answers
ARRAYS LIST:
1. it is a collection of elements stored in continous (contigous) memory location 
2. has fixed size once created 
3. supports fast indexing because the address of any element can be calculated directly 
4. inserting or delecting in the middle is slow because elements must be shifted 
LINKED LIST:
1. a collection of node,where each node stores data and a pointer to the next node 
2. size can grow or shrink at any time 
3. does not require continous memory 
4. insertion and deletion are fast if you already know the position,because you only adjust the pointers 
5. access is slow because you must move from node to node 

6. Discussion Questions
1.	What are the key differences between primitive data types and ADTs?
2.	Why are arrays considered static, and linked lists dynamic?
3.	In what situations would you prefer a linked list over an array?
4.	Give real-world examples where each of the following would be useful:
o	Stack
o	Queue
o	Linked List
    Answers
PRIMITIVE DATA TYPES:
1. basic data types built into the programming languages 
example:int,float,char,boolean 
2. store a single simple value 
3. have predefined operations (like +,-,/)
4. can not be broken down further 
ABSTRACT DATA TYPES:
1. a model or concept tha defines data and operations
example: stack,Queue,list,tree,graph 
2. they describe what operations are allowed (push up,pop,enqueue),not how they are implemented.
3.can be implemented using arrays,linked list etc 

->ARRAYS=static:
1. when you create an array,you must specify its exact size ahead of time 
2. memory is allowed in one block and cannot move 
3. if you need more space,you must create a new array 
->LINKEDLIST=dynamic
1. memoryis allocated node by node as needed 
2. you can add or remove nodes anytime 
3. no need to know the size in advance 
4. perfect for data that keeps changing 

-->In what situations would you prefer a linked list over an array?
1. when you need frequent insertions or delections.eg like a playlist where songs are added/removed often 
2. you do not need the number of element in advance. eg a chat app loading messages one by one 
3. memory is limited or fragmented. eg linkedlist can use small free memory blocks, unlike arrays 
4. you want to easily grow/shrink the data structure.eg arrays cannot grow without creating a new one 

-->Stack (LIFO)
used when the last thing added is the first to be removed 
example 
1. browser history: last visited page is the first to go back to 
2. undo feature in apps: the last action you did is undone first
3. programmingfunction calls: the most recent function call return first 

--->Queue (FIFO)
used when the first item that enters is the first to be processed 
examples:
1. atm queues or bank queues 
2. print queues: first file requested is printed first 
customer service ticket system: first customerto get serverd first 

--->Linked list 
used when you need fast insertion/delection and do not need random access 
examples:
1. music playlist: easy to add/remove songs 
2. navigating slides/plays:next/previous connections like nodes 
3. train coaches: each coach is linked to the next 

-->Activity 1:
Write a function to compute the sum of all elements in a list. Analyze its time complexity.
def total_sum(arr):
    total = 0
    for i in arr:
        total += i
    return total
•	Time Complexity: O(n)
•	Space Complexity: O(1)
   SOLUTION:
 def sum_list(arr)
    total=0
    for i in arr:
    toataL+=1
    return total 
my_arr = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10] 
print(sum_list(my_arr)) 

--> Time complexity
total = 0 -- assignment takes constant time 0(1)
for i in arr iteration takes time 0(n)
total +=;-addition and assignment takes constant amount of time for each iteration constant amount of time, 0(1)
    since the time taken is dominated by the loop which executes n times with a constant amount of work in each iteration 
therefore there is a linear relationship betweenthe execution time and the input size n 
  the time complexityis 0(n).



---> activity 2

    head 
      | 
      V 
    